Once when I was six years old I saw a magnificent picture in a book , called True Stories from Nature , about the primeval forest .
It was a picture of a boa constrictor in the act of swallowing an animal .
Here is a copy of the drawing .
In the book it said : " Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole , without chewing it .
After that they are not able to move , and they sleep through the six months that they need for digestion . "
I pondered deeply , then , over the adventures of the jungle .
And after some work with a colored pencil I succeeded in making my first drawing .
My Drawing Number One .
It looked like this : I showed my masterpiece to the grown - ups , and asked them whether the drawing frightened them .
But they answered : " Frighten ?
Why should any one be frightened by a hat ? "
My drawing was not a picture of a hat .
It was a picture of a boa constrictor digesting an elephant .
But since the grown - ups were not able to understand it , I made another drawing : I drew the inside of the boa constrictor , so that the grown - ups could see it clearly .
They always need to have things explained .
My Drawing Number Two looked like this : The grown - ups ' response , this time , was to advise me to lay aside my drawings of boa constrictors , whether from the inside or the outside , and devote myself instead to geography , history , arithmetic and grammar .
That is why , at the age of six , I gave up what might have been a magnificent career as a painter .
I had been disheartened by the failure of my Drawing Number One and my Drawing Number Two .
Grown - ups never understand anything by themselves , and it is tiresome for children to be always and forever explaining things to them .
So then I chose another profession , and learned to pilot airplanes .
I have flown a little over all parts of the world ; and it is true that geography has been very useful to me .
At a glance I can distinguish China from Arizona .
If one gets lost in the night , such knowledge is valuable .
In the course of this life I have had a great many encounters with a great many people who have been concerned with matters of consequence .
I have lived a great deal among grown - ups .
I have seen them intimately , close at hand .
And that has n't much improved my opinion of them .
Whenever I met one of them who seemed to me at all clear - sighted , I tried the experiment of showing him my Drawing Number One , which I have always kept .
I would try to find out , so , if this was a person of true understanding .
But , whoever it was , he , or she , would always say : " That is a hat . "
Then I would never talk to that person about boa constrictors , or primeval forests , or stars .
I would bring myself down to his level .
I would talk to him about bridge , and golf , and politics , and neckties .
And the grown - up would be greatly pleased to have met such a sensible man .
So I lived my life alone , without anyone that I could really talk to , until I had an accident with my plane in the Desert of Sahara , six years ago .
Something was broken in my engine .
And as I had with me neither a mechanic nor any passengers , I set myself to attempt the difficult repairs all alone .
It was a question of life or death for me : I had scarcely enough drinking water to last a week .
The first night , then , I went to sleep on the sand , a thousand miles from any human habitation .
I was more isolated than a shipwrecked sailor on a raft in the middle of the ocean .
Thus you can imagine my amazement , at sunrise , when I was awakened by an odd little voice .
It said : " If you please -- draw me a sheep ! "
" What ! "
" Draw me a sheep ! "
I jumped to my feet , completely thunderstruck .
I blinked my eyes hard .
I looked carefully all around me .
And I saw a most extraordinary small person , who stood there examining me with great seriousness .
Here you may see the best portrait that , later , I was able to make of him .
But my drawing is certainly very much less charming than its model .
That , however , is not my fault .
The grown - ups discouraged me in my painter 's career when I was six years old , and I never learned to draw anything , except boas from the outside and boas from the inside .
Now I stared at this sudden apparition with my eyes fairly starting out of my head in astonishment .
Remember , I had crashed in the desert a thousand miles from any inhabited region .
And yet my little man seemed neither to be straying uncertainly among the sands , nor to be fainting from fatigue or hunger or thirst or fear .
Nothing about him gave any suggestion of a child lost in the middle of the desert , a thousand miles from any human habitation .
When at last I was able to speak , I said to him : " But -- what are you doing here ? "
And in answer he repeated , very slowly , as if he were speaking of a matter of great consequence : " If you please -- draw me a sheep ... "
When a mystery is too overpowering , one dare not disobey .
Absurd as it might seem to me , a thousand miles from any human habitation and in danger of death , I took out of my pocket a sheet of paper and my fountain - pen .
But then I remembered how my studies had been concentrated on geography , history , arithmetic , and grammar , and I told the little chap ( a little crossly , too ) that I did not know how to draw .
He answered me : " That does n't matter .
Draw me a sheep ... "
But I had never drawn a sheep .
So I drew for him one of the two pictures I had drawn so often .
It was that of the boa constrictor from the outside .
And I was astounded to hear the little fellow greet it with , " No , no , no !
I do not want an elephant inside a boa constrictor .
A boa constrictor is a very dangerous creature , and an elephant is very cumbersome .
Where I live , everything is very small .
What I need is a sheep .
Draw me a sheep . "
So then I made a drawing .
He looked at it carefully , then he said : " No .
This sheep is already very sickly .
Make me another . "
So I made another drawing .
My friend smiled gently and indulgently .
" You see yourself , " he said , " that this is not a sheep .
This is a ram .
It has horns . "
So then I did my drawing over once more .
But it was rejected too , just like the others .
" This one is too old .
I want a sheep that will live a long time . "
By this time my patience was exhausted , because I was in a hurry to start taking my engine apart .
So I tossed off this drawing .
And I threw out an explanation with it .
" This is only his box .
The sheep you asked for is inside . "
I was very surprised to see a light break over the face of my young judge : " That is exactly the way I wanted it !
Do you think that this sheep will have to have a great deal of grass ? "
" Why ? "
" Because where I live everything is very small ... "
" There will surely be enough grass for him , "
I said .
" It is a very small sheep that I have given you . "
He bent his head over the drawing : " Not so small that -- Look !
He has gone to sleep ... "
And that is how I made the acquaintance of the little prince .
It took me a long time to learn where he came from .
The little prince , who asked me so many questions , never seemed to hear the ones I asked him .
It was from words dropped by chance that , little by little , everything was revealed to me .
The first time he saw my airplane , for instance ( I shall not draw my airplane ; that would be much too complicated for me ) , he asked me : " What is that object ? "
" That is not an object .
It flies .
It is an airplane .
It is my airplane . "
And I was proud to have him learn that I could fly .
He cried out , then : " What !
You dropped down from the sky ? "
" Yes , "
I answered , modestly .
" Oh !
That is funny ! "
And the little prince broke into a lovely peal of laughter , which irritated me very much .
I like my misfortunes to be taken seriously .
Then he added : " So you , too , come from the sky !
Which is your planet ? "
At that moment I caught a gleam of light in the impenetrable mystery of his presence ; and I demanded , abruptly : " Do you come from another planet ? "
But he did not reply .
He tossed his head gently , without taking his eyes from my plane : " It is true that on that you can n't have come from very far away ... "
And he sank into a reverie , which lasted a long time .
Then , taking my sheep out of his pocket , he buried himself in the contemplation of his treasure .
You can imagine how my curiosity was aroused by this half - confidence about the " other planets . "
I made a great effort , therefore , to find out more on this subject .
" My little man , where do you come from ?
What is this ' where I live , ' of which you speak ?
Where do you want to take your sheep ? "
After a reflective silence he answered : " The thing that is so good about the box you have given me is that at night he can use it as his house . "
" That is so .
And if you are good I will give you a string , too , so that you can tie him during the day , and a post to tie him to . "
But the little prince seemed shocked by this offer : " Tie him !
What a queer idea ! "
" But if you do n't tie him , "
I said , " he will wander off somewhere , and get lost . "
My friend broke into another peal of laughter : " But where do you think he would go ? "
" Anywhere .
Straight ahead of him . "
Then the little prince said , earnestly : " That does n't matter .
Where I live , everything is so small ! "
And , with perhaps a hint of sadness , he added : " Straight ahead of him , nobody can go very far ... "
I had thus learned a second fact of great importance : this was that the planet the little prince came from was scarcely any larger than a house !
But that did not really surprise me much .
I knew very well that in addition to the great planets -- such as the Earth , Jupiter , Mars , Venus -- to which we have given names , there are also hundreds of others , some of which are so small that one has a hard time seeing them through the telescope .
When an astronomer discovers one of these he does not give it a name , but only a number .
He might call it , for example , " Asteroid 325 . "
I have serious reason to believe that the planet from which the little prince came is the asteroid known as B-612 .
This asteroid has only once been seen through the telescope .
That was by a Turkish astronomer , in 1909 .
On making his discovery , the astronomer had presented it to the International Astronomical Congress , in a great demonstration .
But he was in Turkish costume , and so nobody would believe what he said .
Grown - ups are like that ...
Fortunately , however , for the reputation of Asteroid B-612 , a Turkish dictator made a law that his subjects , under pain of death , should change to European costume .
So in 1920 the astronomer gave his demonstration all over again , dressed with impressive style and elegance .
And this time everybody accepted his report .
If I have told you these details about the asteroid , and made a note of its number for you , it is on account of the grown - ups and their ways .
WHen you tell them that you have made a new friend , they never ask you any questions about essential matters .
They never say to you , " What does his voice sound like ?
What games does he love best ?
Does he collect butterflies ? "
Instead , they demand : " How old is he ?
How many brothers has he ?
How much does he weigh ?
How much money does his father make ? "
Only from these figures do they think they have learned anything about him .
If you were to say to the grown - ups : " I saw a beautiful house made of rosy brick , with geraniums in the windows and doves on the roof , " they would not be able to get any idea of that house at all .
You would have to say to them : " I saw a house that cost $ 20,000 . "
Then they would exclaim : " Oh , what a pretty house that is ! "
Just so , you might say to them : " The proof that the little prince existed is that he was charming , that he laughed , and that he was looking for a sheep .
If anybody wants a sheep , that is a proof that he exists . "
And what good would it do to tell them that ?
They would shrug their shoulders , and treat you like a child .
But if you said to them : " The planet he came from is Asteroid B-612 , " then they would be convinced , and leave you in peace from their questions .
They are like that .
One must not hold it against them .
Children should always show great forbearance toward grown - up people .
But certainly , for us who understand life , figures are a matter of indifference .
I should have liked to begin this story in the fashion of the fairy - tales .
I should have like to say : " Once upon a time there was a little prince who lived on a planet that was scarcely any bigger than himself , and who had need of a sheep ... "
To those who understand life , that would have given a much greater air of truth to my story .
For I do not want any one to read my book carelessly .
I have suffered too much grief in setting down these memories .
Six years have already passed since my friend went away from me , with his sheep .
If I try to describe him here , it is to make sure that I shall not forget him .
To forget a friend is sad .
Not every one has had a friend .
And if I forget him , I may become like the grown - ups who are no longer interested in anything but figures ...
It is for that purpose , again , that I have bought a box of paints and some pencils .
It is hard to take up drawing again at my age , when I have never made any pictures except those of the boa constrictor from the outside and the boa constrictor from the inside , since I was six .
I shall certainly try to make my portraits as true to life as possible .
But I am not at all sure of success .
One drawing goes along all right , and another has no resemblance to its subject .
I make some errors , too , in the little prince 's height : in one place he is too tall and in another too short .
And I feel some doubts about the color of his costume .
So I fumble along as best I can , now good , now bad , and I hope generally fair - to - middling .
In certain more important details I shall make mistakes , also .
But that is something that will not be my fault .
My friend never explained anything to me .
He thought , perhaps , that I was like himself .
But I , alas , do not know how to see sheep through the walls of boxes .
Perhaps I am a little like the grown - ups .
I have had to grow old .
As each day passed I would learn , in our talk , something about the little prince 's planet , his departure from it , his journey .
The information would come very slowly , as it might chance to fall from his thoughts .
It was in this way that I heard , on the third day , about the catastrophe of the baobabs .
This time , once more , I had the sheep to thank for it .
For the little prince asked me abruptly -- as if seized by a grave doubt -- " It is true , is n't it , that sheep eat little bushes ? "
" Yes , that is true . "
" Ah !
I am glad ! "
I did not understand why it was so important that sheep should eat little bushes .
But the little prince added : " Then it follows that they also eat baobabs ? "
I pointed out to the little prince that baobabs were not little bushes , but , on the contrary , trees as big as castles ; and that even if he took a whole herd of elephants away with him , the herd would not eat up one single baobab .
The idea of the herd of elephants made the little prince laugh .
" We would have to put them one on top of the other , " he said .
But he made a wise comment : " Before they grow so big , the baobabs start out by being little . "
" That is strictly correct , "
I said .
" But why do you want the sheep to eat the little baobabs ? "
He answered me at once , " Oh , come , come ! " , as if he were speaking of something that was self - evident .
And I was obliged to make a great mental effort to solve this problem , without any assistance .
Indeed , as I learned , there were on the planet where the little prince lived -- as on all planets -- good plants and bad plants .
In consequence , there were good seeds from good plants , and bad seeds from bad plants .
But seeds are invisible .
They sleep deep in the heart of the earth 's darkness , until some one among them is seized with the desire to awaken .
Then this little seed will stretch itself and begin -- timidly at first -- to push a charming little sprig inoffensively upward toward the sun .
If it is only a sprout of radish or the sprig of a rose - bush , one would let it grow wherever it might wish .
But when it is a bad plant , one must destroy it as soon as possible , the very first instant that one recognizes it .
Now there were some terrible seeds on the planet that was the home of the little prince ; and these were the seeds of the baobab .
The soil of that planet was infested with them .
A baobab is something you will never , never be able to get rid of if you attend to it too late .
It spreads over the entire planet .
It bores clear through it with its roots .
And if the planet is too small , and the baobabs are too many , they split it in pieces ...
" It is a question of discipline , " the little prince said to me later on .
" When you 've finished your own toilet in the morning , then it is time to attend to the toilet of your planet , just so , with the greatest care .
You must see to it that you pull up regularly all the baobabs , at the very first moment when they can be distinguished from the rosebushes which they resemble so closely in their earliest youth .
It is very tedious work , " the little prince added , " but very easy . "
And one day he said to me : " You ought to make a beautiful drawing , so that the children where you live can see exactly how all this is .
That would be very useful to them if they were to travel some day .
Sometimes , " he added , " there is no harm in putting off a piece of work until another day .
But when it is a matter of baobabs , that always means a catastrophe .
I knew a planet that was inhabited by a lazy man .
He neglected three little bushes ... "
So , as the little prince described it to me , I have made a drawing of that planet .
I do not much like to take the tone of a moralist .
But the danger of the baobabs is so little understood , and such considerable risks would be run by anyone who might get lost on an asteroid , that for once I am breaking through my reserve .
" Children , "
I say plainly , " watch out for the baobabs ! "
My friends , like myself , have been skirting this danger for a long time , without ever knowing it ; and so it is for them that I have worked so hard over this drawing .
The lesson which I pass on by this means is worth all the trouble it has cost me .
Perhaps you will ask me , " Why are there no other drawing in this book as magnificent and impressive as this drawing of the baobabs ? "
The reply is simple .
I have tried .
But with the others I have not been successful .
When I made the drawing of the baobabs I was carried beyond myself by the inspiring force of urgent necessity .
Oh , little prince !
Bit by bit I came to understand the secrets of your sad little life ...
For a long time you had found your only entertainment in the quiet pleasure of looking at the sunset .
I learned that new detail on the morning of the fourth day , when you said to me : " I am very fond of sunsets .
Come , let us go look at a sunset now . "
" But we must wait , "
I said .
" Wait ?
For what ? "
" For the sunset .
We must wait until it is time . "
At first you seemed to be very much surprised .
And then you laughed to yourself .
You said to me : " I am always thinking that I am at home ! "
Just so .
Everybody knows that when it is noon in the United States the sun is setting over France .
If you could fly to France in one minute , you could go straight into the sunset , right from noon .
Unfortunately , France is too far away for that .
But on your tiny planet , my little prince , all you need do is move your chair a few steps .
You can see the day end and the twilight falling whenever you like ...
" One day , " you said to me , " I saw the sunset forty - four times ! "
And a little later you added : " You know -- one loves the sunset , when one is so sad ... "
" Were you so sad , then ? "
I asked , " on the day of the forty - four sunsets ? "
But the little prince made no reply .
On the fifth day -- again , as always , it was thanks to the sheep -- the secret of the little prince 's life was revealed to me .
Abruptly , without anything to lead up to it , and as if the question had been born of long and silent meditation on his problem , he demanded : " A sheep -- if it eats little bushes , does it eat flowers , too ? "
" A sheep , "
I answered , " eats anything it finds in its reach . "
" Even flowers that have thorns ? "
" Yes , even flowers that have thorns . "
" Then the thorns -- what use are they ? "
I did not know .
At that moment I was very busy trying to unscrew a bolt that had got stuck in my engine .
I was very much worried , for it was becoming clear to me that the breakdown of my plane was extremely serious .
And I had so little drinking - water left that I had to fear for the worst .
" The thorns - - what use are they ? "
The little prince never let go of a question , once he had asked it .
As for me , I was upset over that bolt .
And I answered with the first thing that came into my head : " The thorns are of no use at all .
Flowers have thorns just for spite ! "
" Oh ! "
There was a moment of complete silence .
Then the little prince flashed back at me , with a kind of resentfulness : " I do n't believe you !
Flowers are weak creatures .
They are naïve .
They reassure themselves as best they can .
They believe that their thorns are terrible weapons ... "
I did not answer .
At that instant I was saying to myself : " If this bolt still will n't turn , I am going to knock it out with the hammer . "
Again the little prince disturbed my thoughts .
" And you actually believe that the flowers - - "
" Oh , no ! "
I cried .
" No , no no !
I do n't believe anything .
I answered you with the first thing that came into my head .
Do n't you see - - I am very busy with matters of consequence ! "
He stared at me , thunderstruck .
" Matters of consequence ! "
He looked at me there , with my hammer in my hand , my fingers black with engine - grease , bending down over an object which seemed to him extremely ugly ...
" You talk just like the grown - ups ! "
That made me a little ashamed .
But he went on , relentlessly : " You mix everything up together ...
You confuse everything ... "
He was really very angry .
He tossed his golden curls in the breeze .
" I know a planet where there is a certain red - faced gentleman .
He has never smelled a flower .
He has never looked at a star .
He has never loved any one .
He has never done anything in his life but add up figures .
And all day he says over and over , just like you : ' I am busy with matters of consequence ! ' And that makes him swell up with pride .
But he is not a man - - he is a mushroom ! "
" A what ? "
" A mushroom ! "
The little prince was now white with rage .
" The flowers have been growing thorns for millions of years .
For millions of years the sheep have been eating them just the same .
And is it not a matter of consequence to try to understand why the flowers go to so much trouble to grow thorns which are never of any use to them ?
Is the warfare between the sheep and the flowers not important ?
Is this not of more consequence than a fat red - faced gentleman 's sums ?
And if I know - - I , myself - - one flower which is unique in the world , which grows nowhere but on my planet , but which one little sheep can destroy in a single bite some morning , without even noticing what he is doing - - Oh !
You think that is not important ! "
His face turned from white to red as he continued : " If some one loves a flower , of which just one single blossom grows in all the millions and millions of stars , it is enough to make him happy just to look at the stars .
He can say to himself , ' Somewhere , my flower is there ... ' But if the sheep eats the flower , in one moment all his stars will be darkened ...
And you think that is not important ! "
He could not say anything more .
His words were choked by sobbing .
The night had fallen .
I had let my tools drop from my hands .
Of what moment now was my hammer , my bolt , or thirst , or death ?
On one star , one planet , my planet , the Earth , there was a little prince to be comforted .
I took him in my arms , and rocked him .
I said to him : " The flower that you love is not in danger .
I will draw you a muzzle for your sheep .
I will draw you a railing to put around your flower .
I will - - "
I did not know what to say to him .
I felt awkward and blundering .
I did not know how I could reach him , where I could overtake him and go on hand in hand with him once more .
It is such a secret place , the land of tears .
I soon learned to know this flower better .
On the little prince 's planet the flowers had always been very simple .
They had only one ring of petals ; they took up no room at all ; they were a trouble to nobody .
One morning they would appear in the grass , and by night they would have faded peacefully away .
But one day , from a seed blown from no one knew where , a new flower had come up ; and the little prince had watched very closely over this small sprout which was not like any other small sprouts on his planet .
It might , you see , have been a new kind of baobab .
The shrub soon stopped growing , and began to get ready to produce a flower .
The little prince , who was present at the first appearance of a huge bud , felt at once that some sort of miraculous apparition must emerge from it .
But the flower was not satisfied to complete the preparations for her beauty in the shelter of her green chamber .
She chose her colours with the greatest care .
She adjusted her petals one by one .
She did not wish to go out into the world all rumpled , like the field poppies .
It was only in the full radiance of her beauty that she wished to appear .
Oh , yes !
She was a coquettish creature !
And her mysterious adornment lasted for days and days .
Then one morning , exactly at sunrise , she suddenly showed herself .
And , after working with all this painstaking precision , she yawned and said : " Ah !
I am scarcely awake .
I beg that you will excuse me .
My petals are still all disarranged ... "
But the little prince could not restrain his admiration : " Oh !
How beautiful you are ! "
" Am I not ? " the flower responded , sweetly .
" And I was born at the same moment as the sun ... "
The little prince could guess easily enough that she was not any too modest - - but how moving - - and exciting - - she was !
" I think it is time for breakfast , " she added an instant later .
" If you would have the kindness to think of my needs - - "
And the little prince , completely abashed , went to look for a sprinkling - can of fresh water .
So , he tended the flower .
So , too , she began very quickly to torment him with her vanity - - which was , if the truth be known , a little difficult to deal with .
One day , for instance , when she was speaking of her four thorns , she said to the little prince : " Let the tigers come with their claws ! "
" There are no tigers on my planet , " the little prince objected .
" And , anyway , tigers do not eat weeds . "
" I am not a weed , " the flower replied , sweetly .
" Please excuse me ... "
" I am not at all afraid of tigers , " she went on , " but I have a horror of drafts .
I suppose you would n't have a screen for me ? "
" A horror of drafts - - that is bad luck , for a plant , " remarked the little prince , and added to himself , " This flower is a very complex creature ... "
" At night I want you to put me under a glass globe .
It is very cold where you live .
In the place I came from - - "
But she interrupted herself at that point .
She had come in the form of a seed .
She could not have known anything of any other worlds .
Embarassed over having let herself be caught on the verge of such a naïve untruth , she coughed two or three times , in order to put the little prince in the wrong .
" The screen ? "
" I was just going to look for it when you spoke to me ... "
Then she forced her cough a little more so that he should suffer from remorse just the same .
So the little prince , in spite of all the good will that was inseparable from his love , had soon come to doubt her .
He had taken seriously words which were without importance , and it made him very unhappy .
" I ought not to have listened to her , " he confided to me one day . "
One never ought to listen to the flowers .
One should simply look at them and breathe their fragrance .
Mine perfumed all my planet .
But I did not know how to take pleasure in all her grace .
This tale of claws , which disturbed me so much , should only have filled my heart with tenderness and pity . "
And he continued his confidences : " The fact is that I did not know how to understand anything !
I ought to have judged by deeds and not by words .
She cast her fragrance and her radiance over me .
I ought never to have run away from her ...
I ought to have guessed all the affection that lay behind her poor little strategems .
Flowers are so inconsistent !
But I was too young to know how to love her ... "
I believe that for his escape he took advantage of the migration of a flock of wild birds .
On the morning of his departure he put his planet in perfect order .
He carefully cleaned out his active volcanoes .
He possessed two active volcanoes ; and they were very convenient for heating his breakfast in the morning .
He also had one volcano that was extinct .
But , as he said , " One never knows ! "
So he cleaned out the extinct volcano , too .
If they are well cleaned out , volcanoes burn slowly and steadily , without any eruptions .
Volcanic eruptions are like fires in a chimney .
On our earth we are obviously much too small to clean out our volcanoes .
That is why they bring no end of trouble upon us .
The little prince also pulled up , with a certain sense of dejection , the last little shoots of the baobabs .
He believed that he would never want to return .
But on this last morning all these familiar tasks seemed very precious to him .
And when he watered the flower for the last time , and prepared to place her under the shelter of her glass globe , he realised that he was very close to tears .
" Goodbye , " he said to the flower .
But she made no answer .
" Goodbye , " he said again .
The flower coughed .
But it was not because she had a cold .
" I have been silly , " she said to him , at last .
" I ask your forgiveness .
Try to be happy ... "
He was surprised by this absence of reproaches .
He stood there all bewildered , the glass globe held arrested in mid - air .
He did not understand this quiet sweetness .
" Of course I love you , " the flower said to him .
" It is my fault that you have not known it all the while .
That is of no importance .
But you - - you have been just as foolish as I .
Try to be happy ... let the glass globe be .
I do n't want it any more . "
" But the wind - - "
" My cold is not so bad as all that ... the cool night air will do me good .
I am a flower . "
" But the animals - - "
" Well , I must endure the presence of two or three caterpillars if I wish to become acquainted with the butterflies .
It seems that they are very beautiful .
And if not the butterflies - - and the caterpillars - - who will call upon me ?
You will be far away ... as for the large animals - - I am not at all afraid of any of them .
I have my claws . "
And , naïvely , she showed her four thorns .
Then she added : " Do n't linger like this .
You have decided to go away .
Now go ! "
For she did not want him to see her crying .
She was such a proud flower ...
He found himself in the neighborhood of the asteroids 325 , 326 , 327 , 328 , 329 , and 330 .
He began , therefore , by visiting them , in order to add to his knowledge .
The first of them was inhabited by a king .
Clad in royal purple and ermine , he was seated upon a throne which was at the same time both simple and majestic .
" Ah !
Here is a subject , " exclaimed the king , when he saw the little prince coming .
And the little prince asked himself : " How could he recognize me when he had never seen me before ? "
He did not know how the world is simplified for kings .
To them , all men are subjects .
" Approach , so that I may see you better , " said the king , who felt consumingly proud of being at last a king over somebody .
The little prince looked everywhere to find a place to sit down ; but the entire planet was crammed and obstructed by the king 's magnificent ermine robe .
So he remained standing upright , and , since he was tired , he yawned .
" It is contrary to etiquette to yawn in the presence of a king , " the monarch said to him .
" I forbid you to do so . "
" I can n't help it .
I can n't stop myself , " replied the little prince , thoroughly embarrassed .
" I have come on a long journey , and I have had no sleep ... "
" Ah , then , " the king said .
" I order you to yawn .
It is years since I have seen anyone yawning .
Yawns , to me , are objects of curiosity .
Come , now !
Yawn again !
It is an order . "
" That frightens me ...
I can not , any more ... " murmured the little prince , now completely abashed .
" Hum !
Hum ! " replied the king .
" Then I - - I order you sometimes to yawn and sometimes to - - "
He sputtered a little , and seemed vexed .
For what the king fundamentally insisted upon was that his authority should be respected .
He tolerated no disobedience .
He was an absolute monarch .
But , because he was a very good man , he made his orders reasonable .
" If I ordered a general , " he would say , by way of example , " if I ordered a general to change himself into a sea bird , and if the general did not obey me , that would not be the fault of the general .
It would be my fault . "
" May I sit down ? " came now a timid inquiry from the little prince .
" I order you to do so , " the king answered him , and majestically gathered in a fold of his ermine mantle .
But the little prince was wondering ...
The planet was tiny .
Over what could this king really rule ?
" Sire , " he said to him , " I beg that you will excuse my asking you a question - - "
" I order you to ask me a question , " the king hastened to assure him .
" Sire - - over what do you rule ? "
" Over everything , " said the king , with magnificent simplicity .
" Over everything ? "
The king made a gesture , which took in his planet , the other planets , and all the stars .
" Over all that ? " asked the little prince .
" Over all that , " the king answered .
For his rule was not only absolute : it was also universal .
" And the stars obey you ? "
" Certainly they do , " the king said .
" They obey instantly .
I do not permit insubordination . "
Such power was a thing for the little prince to marvel at .
If he had been master of such complete authority , he would have been able to watch the sunset , not forty - four times in one day , but seventy - two , or even a hundred , or even two hundred times , without ever having to move his chair .
And because he felt a bit sad as he remembered his little planet which he had forsaken , he plucked up his courage to ask the king a favor : " I should like to see a sunset ... do me that kindness ...
Order the sun to set ... "
" If I ordered a general to fly from one flower to another like a butterfly , or to write a tragic drama , or to change himself into a sea bird , and if the general did not carry out the order that he had received , which one of us would be in the wrong ? " the king demanded .
" The general , or myself ? "
" You , " said the little prince firmly .
" Exactly .
One much require from each one the duty which each one can perform , " the king went on .
" Accepted authority rests first of all on reason .
If you ordered your people to go and throw themselves into the sea , they would rise up in revolution .
I have the right to require obedience because my orders are reasonable . "
" Then my sunset ? " the little prince reminded him : for he never forgot a question once he had asked it .
" You shall have your sunset .
I shall command it .
But , according to my science of government , I shall wait until conditions are favorable . "
" When will that be ? " inquired the little prince .
" Hum !
Hum ! " replied the king ; and before saying anything else he consulted a bulky almanac .
" Hum !
Hum !
That will be about - - about - - that will be this evening about twenty minutes to eight .
And you will see how well I am obeyed . "
The little prince yawned .
He was regretting his lost sunset .
And then , too , he was already beginning to be a little bored .
" I have nothing more to do here , " he said to the king .
" So I shall set out on my way again . "
" Do not go , " said the king , who was very proud of having a subject .
" Do not go .
I will make you a Minister ! "
" Minister of what ? "
" Minster of - - of Justice ! "
" But there is nobody here to judge ! "
" We do not know that , " the king said to him .
" I have not yet made a complete tour of my kingdom .
I am very old .
There is no room here for a carriage .
And it tires me to walk . "
" Oh , but I have looked already ! " said the little prince , turning around to give one more glance to the other side of the planet .
On that side , as on this , there was nobody at all ...
" Then you shall judge yourself , " the king answered .
" that is the most difficult thing of all .
It is much more difficult to judge oneself than to judge others .
If you succeed in judging yourself rightly , then you are indeed a man of true wisdom . "
" Yes , " said the little prince , " but I can judge myself anywhere .
I do not need to live on this planet .
" Hum !
Hum ! " said the king .
" I have good reason to believe that somewhere on my planet there is an old rat .
I hear him at night .
You can judge this old rat .
From time to time you will condemn him to death .
Thus his life will depend on your justice .
But you will pardon him on each occasion ; for he must be treated thriftily .
He is the only one we have . "
" I , " replied the little prince , " do not like to condemn anyone to death .
And now I think I will go on my way . "
" No , " said the king .
But the little prince , having now completed his preparations for departure , had no wish to grieve the old monarch .
" If Your Majesty wishes to be promptly obeyed , " he said , " he should be able to give me a reasonable order .
He should be able , for example , to order me to be gone by the end of one minute .
It seems to me that conditions are favorable ... "
As the king made no answer , the little prince hesitated a moment .
Then , with a sigh , he took his leave .
" I made you my Ambassador , " the king called out , hastily .
He had a magnificent air of authority .
" The grown - ups are very strange , " the little prince said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
The second planet was inhabited by a conceited man .
" Ah !
Ah !
I am about to receive a visit from an admirer ! " he exclaimed from afar , when he first saw the little prince coming .
For , to conceited men , all other men are admirers .
" Good morning , " said the little prince .
" That is a queer hat you are wearing . "
" It is a hat for salutes , " the conceited man replied .
" It is to raise in salute when people acclaim me .
Unfortunately , nobody at all ever passes this way . "
" Yes ? " said the little prince , who did not understand what the conceited man was talking about .
" Clap your hands , one against the other , " the conceited man now directed him .
The little prince clapped his hands .
The conceited man raised his hat in a modest salute .
" This is more entertaining than the visit to the king , " the little prince said to himself .
And he began again to clap his hands , one against the other .
The conceited man against raised his hat in salute .
After five minutes of this exercise the little prince grew tired of the game 's monotony .
" And what should one do to make the hat come down ? " he asked .
But the conceited man did not hear him .
Conceited people never hear anything but praise .
" Do you really admire me very much ? " he demanded of the little prince .
" What does that mean - - ' admire ' ? "
" To admire mean that you regard me as the handsomest , the best - dressed , the richest , and the most intelligent man on this planet . "
" But you are the only man on your planet ! "
" Do me this kindness .
Admire me just the same . "
" I admire you , " said the little prince , shrugging his shoulders slightly , " but what is there in that to interest you so much ? "
And the little prince went away .
" The grown - ups are certainly very odd , " he said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
The next planet was inhabited by a tippler .
This was a very short visit , but it plunged the little prince into deep dejection .
" What are you doing there ? " he said to the tippler , whom he found settled down in silence before a collection of empty bottles and also a collection of full bottles .
" I am drinking , " replied the tippler , with a lugubrious air .
" Why are you drinking ? " demanded the little prince .
" So that I may forget , " replied the tippler .
" Forget what ? " inquired the little prince , who already was sorry for him .
" Forget that I am ashamed , " the tippler confessed , hanging his head .
" Ashamed of what ? " insisted the little prince , who wanted to help him .
" Ashamed of drinking ! "
The tippler brought his speech to an end , and shut himself up in an impregnable silence .
And the little prince went away , puzzled .
" The grown - ups are certainly very , very odd , " he said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
The fourth planet belonged to a businessman .
This man was so much occupied that he did not even raise his head at the little prince 's arrival .
" Good morning , " the little prince said to him .
" Your cigarette has gone out . "
" Three and two make five .
Five and seven make twelve .
Twelve and three make fifteen .
Good morning .
FIfteen and seven make twenty - two .
Twenty - two and six make twenty - eight .
I have n't time to light it again .
Twenty - six and five make thirty - one .
Phew !
Then that makes five - hundred - and - one - million , six - hundred - twenty - two - thousand , seven - hundred - thirty - one . "
" Five hundred million what ? " asked the little prince .
" Eh ?
Are you still there ?
Five - hundred - and - one million - - I can n't stop ...
I have so much to do !
I am concerned with matters of consequence .
I do n't amuse myself with balderdash .
Two and five make seven ... "
" Five - hundred - and - one million what ? " repeated the little prince , who never in his life had let go of a question once he had asked it .
The businessman raised his head .
" During the fifty - four years that I have inhabited this planet , I have been disturbed only three times .
The first time was twenty - two years ago , when some giddy goose fell from goodness knows where .
He made the most frightful noise that resounded all over the place , and I made four mistakes in my addition .
The second time , eleven years ago , I was disturbed by an attack of rheumatism .
I do n't get enough exercise .
I have no time for loafing .
The third time - - well , this is it !
I was saying , then , five - hundred - and - one millions - - "
" Millions of what ? "
The businessman suddenly realized that there was no hope of being left in peace until he answered this question .
" Millions of those little objects , " he said , " which one sometimes sees in the sky . "
" Flies ? "
" Oh , no .
Little glittering objects . "
" Bees ? "
" Oh , no .
Little golden objects that set lazy men to idle dreaming .
As for me , I am concerned with matters of consequence .
There is no time for idle dreaming in my life . "
" Ah !
You mean the stars ? "
" Yes , that 's it .
The stars . "
" And what do you do with five - hundred millions of stars ? "
" Five - hundred - and - one million , six - hundred - twenty - two thousand , seven - hundred - thirty - one .
I am concerned with matters of consequence : I am accurate . "
" And what do you do with these stars ? "
" What do I do with them ? "
" Yes . "
" Nothing .
I own them . "
" You own the stars ? "
" Yes . "
" But I have already seen a king who - - "
" Kings do not own , they reign over .
It is a very different matter . "
" And what good does it do you to own the stars ? "
" It does me the good of making me rich . "
" And what good does it do you to be rich ? "
" It makes it possible for me to buy more stars , if any are ever discovered . "
" This man , " the little prince said to himself , " reasons a little like my poor tippler ... "
Nevertheless , he still had some more questions .
" How is it possible for one to own the stars ? "
" To whom do they belong ? " the businessman retorted , peevishly .
" I do n't know .
To nobody . "
" Then they belong to me , because I was the first person to think of it . "
" Is that all that is necessary ? "
" Certainly .
When you find a diamond that belongs to nobody , it is yours .
When you discover an island that belongs to nobody , it is yours .
When you get an idea before any one else , you take out a patent on it : it is yours .
So with me : I own the stars , because nobody else before me ever thought of owning them . "
" Yes , that is true , " said the little prince .
" And what do you do with them ? "
" I administer them , " replied the businessman .
" I count them and recount them .
It is difficult .
But I am a man who is naturally interested in matters of consequence . "
The little prince was still not satisfied .
" If I owned a silk scarf , " he said , " I could put it around my neck and take it away with me .
If I owned a flower , I could pluck that flower and take it away with me .
But you can not pluck the stars from heaven ... "
" No .
But I can put them in the bank . "
" Whatever does that mean ? "
" That means that I write the number of my stars on a little paper .
And then I put this paper in a drawer and lock it with a key . "
" And that is all ? "
" That is enough , " said the businessman .
" It is entertaining , " thought the little prince .
" It is rather poetic .
But it is of no great consequence . "
On matters of consequence , the little prince had ideas which were very different from those of the grown - ups .
" I myself own a flower , " he continued his conversation with the businessman , " which I water every day .
I own three volcanoes , which I clean out every week ( for I also clean out the one that is extinct ; one never knows ) .
It is of some use to my volcanoes , and it is of some use to my flower , that I own them .
But you are of no use to the stars ... "
The businessman opened his mouth , but he found nothing to say in answer .
And the little prince went away .
" The grown - ups are certainly altogether extraordinary , " he said simply , talking to himself as he continued on his journey .
The fifth planet was very strange .
It was the smallest of all .
There was just enough room on it for a street lamp and a lamplighter .
The little prince was not able to reach any explanation of the use of a street lamp and a lamplighter , somewhere in the heavens , on a planet which had no people , and not one house .
But he said to himself , nevertheless : " It may well be that this man is absurd .
But he is not so absurd as the king , the conceited man , the businessman , and the tippler .
For at least his work has some meaning .
When he lights his street lamp , it is as if he brought one more star to life , or one flower .
When he puts out his lamp , he sends the flower , or the star , to sleep .
That is a beautiful occupation .
And since it is beautiful , it is truly useful . "
When he arrived on the planet he respectfully saluted the lamplighter .
" Good morning .
Why have you just put out your lamp ? "
" Those are the orders , " replied the lamplighter .
" Good morning . "
" What are the orders ? "
" The orders are that I put out my lamp .
Good evening . "
And he lighted his lamp again .
" But why have you just lighted it again ? "
" Those are the orders , " replied the lamplighter .
" I do not understand , " said the little prince .
" There is nothing to understand , " said the lamplighter .
" Orders are orders .
Good morning . "
And he put out his lamp .
Then he mopped his forehead with a handkerchief decorated with red squares .
" I follow a terrible profession .
In the old days it was reasonable .
I put the lamp out in the morning , and in the evening I lighted it again .
I had the rest of the day for relaxation and the rest of the night for sleep . "
" And the orders have been changed since that time ? "
" The orders have not been changed , " said the lamplighter .
" That is the tragedy !
From year to year the planet has turned more rapidly and the orders have not been changed ! "
" Then what ? " asked the little prince .
" Then - - the planet now makes a complete turn every minute , and I no longer have a single second for repose .
Once every minute I have to light my lamp and put it out ! "
" That is very funny !
A day lasts only one minute , here where you live ! "
" It is not funny at all ! " said the lamplighter .
" While we have been talking together a month has gone by . "
" A month ? "
" Yes , a month .
Thirty minutes .
Thirty days .
Good evening . "
And he lighted his lamp again .
As the little prince watched him , he felt that he loved this lamplighter who was so faithful to his orders .
He remembered the sunsets which he himself had gone to seek , in other days , merely by pulling up his chair ; and he wanted to help his friend .
" You know , " he said , " I can tell you a way you can rest whenever you want to ... "
" I always want to rest , " said the lamplighter .
For it is possible for a man to be faithful and lazy at the same time .
The little prince went on with his explanation : " Your planet is so small that three strides will take you all the way around it .
To be always in the sunshine , you need only walk along rather slowly .
When you want to rest , you will walk - - and the day will last as long as you like . "
" That does n't do me much good , " said the lamplighter .
" The one thing I love in life is to sleep . "
" Then you 're unlucky , " said the little prince .
" I am unlucky , " said the lamplighter .
" Good morning . "
And he put out his lamp .
" That man , " said the little prince to himself , as he continued farther on his journey , " that man would be scorned by all the others : by the king , by the conceited man , by the tippler , by the businessman .
Nevertheless he is the only one of them all who does not seem to me ridiculous .
Perhaps that is because he is thinking of something else besides himself . "
He breathed a sigh of regret , and said to himself , again : " That man is the only one of them all whom I could have made my friend .
But his planet is indeed too small .
There is no room on it for two people ... "
What the little prince did not dare confess was that he was sorry most of all to leave this planet , because it was blest every day with 1440 sunsets !
The sixth planet was ten times larger than the last one .
It was inhabited by an old gentleman who wrote voluminous books .
" Oh , look !
Here is an explorer ! " he exclaimed to himself when he saw the little prince coming .
The little prince sat down on the table and panted a little .
He had already traveled so much and so far !
" Where do you come from ? " the old gentleman said to him .
" What is that big book ? " said the little prince .
" What are you doing ? "
" I am a geographer , " the old gentleman said to him .
" What is a geographer ? " asked the little prince .
" A geographer is a scholar who knows the location of all the seas , rivers , towns , mountains , and deserts . "
" That is very interesting , " said the little prince .
" Here at last is a man who has a real profession ! "
And he cast a look around him at the planet of the geographer .
It was the most magnificent and stately planet that he had ever seen .
" Your planet is very beautiful , " he said .
" Has it any oceans ? "
" I could n't tell you , " said the geographer .
" Ah ! "
The little prince was disappointed .
" Has it any mountains ? "
" I could n't tell you , " said the geographer .
" And towns , and rivers , and deserts ? "
" I could n't tell you that , either . "
" But you are a geographer ! "
" Exactly , " the geographer said .
" But I am not an explorer .
I have n't a single explorer on my planet .
It is not the geographer who goes out to count the towns , the rivers , the mountains , the seas , the oceans , and the deserts .
The geographer is much too important to go loafing about .
He does not leave his desk .
But he receives the explorers in his study .
He asks them questions , and he notes down what they recall of their travels .
And if the recollections of any one among them seem interesting to him , the geographer orders an inquiry into that explorer 's moral character . "
" Why is that ? "
" Because an explorer who told lies would bring disaster on the books of the geographer .
So would an explorer who drank too much . "
" Why is that ? " asked the little prince .
" Because intoxicated men see double .
Then the geographer would note down two mountains in a place where there was only one . "
" I know some one , " said the little prince , " who would make a bad explorer . "
" That is possible .
Then , when the moral character of the explorer is shown to be good , an inquiry is ordered into his discovery . "
" One goes to see it ? "
" No .
That would be too complicated .
But one requires the explorer to furnish proofs .
For example , if the discovery in question is that of a large mountain , one requires that large stones be brought back from it . "
The geographer was suddenly stirred to excitement .
" But you - - you come from far away !
You are an explorer !
You shall describe your planet to me ! "
And , having opened his big register , the geographer sharpened his pencil .
The recitals of explorers are put down first in pencil .
One waits until the explorer has furnished proofs , before putting them down in ink .
" Well ? " said the geographer expectantly .
" Oh , where I live , " said the little prince , " it is not very interesting .
It is all so small .
I have three volcanoes .
Two volcanoes are active and the other is extinct .
But one never knows . "
" One never knows , " said the geographer .
" I have also a flower . "
" We do not record flowers , " said the geographer .
" Why is that ?
The flower is the most beautiful thing on my planet ! "
" We do not record them , " said the geographer , " because they are ephemeral . "
" What does that mean - - ' ephemeral ' ? "
" Geographies , " said the geographer , " are the books which , of all books , are most concerned with matters of consequence .
They never become old - fashioned .
It is very rarely that a mountain changes its position .
It is very rarely that an ocean empties itself of its waters .
We write of eternal things . "
" But extinct volcanoes may come to life again , " the little prince interrupted .
" What does that mean - - ' ephemeral ' ? "
" Whether volcanoes are extinct or alive , it comes to the same thing for us , " said the geographer .
" The thing that matters to us is the mountain .
It does not change . "
" But what does that mean - - ' ephemeral ' ? " repeated the little prince , who never in his life had let go of a question , once he had asked it .
" It means , ' which is in danger of speedy disappearance . ' "
" Is my flower in danger of speedy disappearance ? "
" Certainly it is . "
" My flower is ephemeral , " the little prince said to himself , " and she has only four thorns to defend herself against the world .
And I have left her on my planet , all alone ! "
That was his first moment of regret .
But he took courage once more .
" What place would you advise me to visit now ? " he asked .
" The planet Earth , " replied the geographer .
" It has a good reputation . "